.\"         OpenPBS (Portable Batch System) v2.3 Software License
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Veridian Information Solutions, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" For a license to use or redistribute the OpenPBS software under conditions
.\" other than those described below, or to purchase support for this software,
.\" please contact Veridian Systems, PBS Products Department ("Licensor") at:
.\" 
.\"    www.OpenPBS.org  +1 650 967-4675                  sales@OpenPBS.org
.\"                        877 902-4PBS (US toll-free)
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" 
.\" This license covers use of the OpenPBS v2.3 software (the "Software") at
.\" your site or location, and, for certain users, redistribution of the
.\" Software to other sites and locations.  Use and redistribution of
.\" OpenPBS v2.3 in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted provided that all of the following conditions are met.
.\" After December 31, 2001, only conditions 3-6 must be met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Commercial and/or non-commercial use of the Software is permitted
.\"    provided a current software registration is on file at www.OpenPBS.org.
.\"    If use of this software contributes to a publication, product, or service
.\"    proper attribution must be given; see www.OpenPBS.org/credit.html
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistribution in any form is only permitted for non-commercial,
.\"    non-profit purposes.  There can be no charge for the Software or any
.\"    software incorporating the Software.  Further, there can be no
.\"    expectation of revenue generated as a consequence of redistributing
.\"    the Software.
.\" 
.\" 3. Any Redistribution of source code must retain the above copyright notice
.\"    and the acknowledgment contained in paragraph 6, this list of conditions
.\"    and the disclaimer contained in paragraph 7.
.\" 
.\" 4. Any Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice and the acknowledgment contained in paragraph 6, this list of
.\"    conditions and the disclaimer contained in paragraph 7 in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 5. Redistributions in any form must be accompanied by information on how to
.\"    obtain complete source code for the OpenPBS software and any
.\"    modifications and/or additions to the OpenPBS software.  The source code
.\"    must either be included in the distribution or be available for no more
.\"    than the cost of distribution plus a nominal fee, and all modifications
.\"    and additions to the Software must be freely redistributable by any party
.\"    (including Licensor) without restriction.
.\" 
.\" 6. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of the Software must
.\"    display the following acknowledgment:
.\" 
.\"     "This product includes software developed by NASA Ames Research Center,
.\"     Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and Veridian Information
.\"     Solutions, Inc.
.\"     Visit www.OpenPBS.org for OpenPBS software support,
.\"     products, and information."
.\" 
.\" 7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT
.\" ARE EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL VERIDIAN CORPORATION, ITS AFFILIATED COMPANIES, OR THE
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT OR ANY OF ITS AGENCIES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA,
.\" OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" This license will be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
.\" without reference to its choice of law rules.
.if \n(Pb .ig Iq
.TH pbsnodes 8B "" Local PBS
.so ../ers/ers.macros
.Iq
.SH NAME
pbsnodes \- pbs node manipulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
pbsnodes [\^-{c|d|o|p|r}\^] [-q] [-s server] [nodename|:property ...]
.br
pbsnodes -l [-s server] [-q]
.br
pbsnodes [\^-{a|x}\^] [-s server] [-q] [node|:property]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B pbsnodes
command is used to mark nodes down, free or offline.
It can also be used to list nodes and their state.
Node information is obtained by sending a request to the
PBS job server.  Sets of nodes can be operated on at once
by specifying a node property prefixed by a colon.
.LP
In order to execute pbsnodes with other than the
.B \-a
or
.B \-l
options, the user must have PBS Manager or Operator privilege.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a" 15
All attributes of a node or all nodes are listed.  This is the default
if no flag is given.
.IP "-c" 15
Clear OFFLINE from listed nodes. 
.IP "-d" 15
Print MOM diagnosis on the listed nodes.  Not yet implemented.  
Use momctl instead.
.IP "-l" 15
List all nodes marked as DOWN, OFFLINE, or UNKNOWN.
.IP "-o" 15
Mark listed nodes as OFFLINE even if currently in use.
This is different from being marked DOWN.
An automated script that checks nodes being up or down and calls
.B pbsnodes
with a list of nodes down will not change the status of nodes marked
OFFLINE.  This gives the administrator a tool to hold a node out
of service without changing the automatic script.
.IP "-p" 15
Purge the node record from pbs_server.  Not yet implemented.
.IP "-q" 15
Supress all error messages.
.IP "-r" 15
Reset the listed nodes by clearing OFFLINE and adding DOWN state.
pbs_server will ping the node and set the state appropriately.
.IP "-s" 15
Specify the PBS server's hostname or IP address.
.IP "-x" 15
Same as -a, but the output has an XML-like format.
.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_server(8B) and the PBS External Reference Specification
