.\"         OpenPBS (Portable Batch System) v2.3 Software License
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Veridian Information Solutions, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" For a license to use or redistribute the OpenPBS software under conditions
.\" other than those described below, or to purchase support for this software,
.\" please contact Veridian Systems, PBS Products Department ("Licensor") at:
.\" 
.\"    www.OpenPBS.org  +1 650 967-4675                  sales@OpenPBS.org
.\"                        877 902-4PBS (US toll-free)
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" 
.\" This license covers use of the OpenPBS v2.3 software (the "Software") at
.\" your site or location, and, for certain users, redistribution of the
.\" Software to other sites and locations.  Use and redistribution of
.\" OpenPBS v2.3 in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted provided that all of the following conditions are met.
.\" After December 31, 2001, only conditions 3-6 must be met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Commercial and/or non-commercial use of the Software is permitted
.\"    provided a current software registration is on file at www.OpenPBS.org.
.\"    If use of this software contributes to a publication, product, or service
.\"    proper attribution must be given; see www.OpenPBS.org/credit.html
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistribution in any form is only permitted for non-commercial,
.\"    non-profit purposes.  There can be no charge for the Software or any
.\"    software incorporating the Software.  Further, there can be no
.\"    expectation of revenue generated as a consequence of redistributing
.\"    the Software.
.\" 
.\" 3. Any Redistribution of source code must retain the above copyright notice
.\"    and the acknowledgment contained in paragraph 6, this list of conditions
.\"    and the disclaimer contained in paragraph 7.
.\" 
.\" 4. Any Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice and the acknowledgment contained in paragraph 6, this list of
.\"    conditions and the disclaimer contained in paragraph 7 in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 5. Redistributions in any form must be accompanied by information on how to
.\"    obtain complete source code for the OpenPBS software and any
.\"    modifications and/or additions to the OpenPBS software.  The source code
.\"    must either be included in the distribution or be available for no more
.\"    than the cost of distribution plus a nominal fee, and all modifications
.\"    and additions to the Software must be freely redistributable by any party
.\"    (including Licensor) without restriction.
.\" 
.\" 6. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of the Software must
.\"    display the following acknowledgment:
.\" 
.\"     "This product includes software developed by NASA Ames Research Center,
.\"     Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and Veridian Information
.\"     Solutions, Inc.
.\"     Visit www.OpenPBS.org for OpenPBS software support,
.\"     products, and information."
.\" 
.\" 7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT
.\" ARE EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL VERIDIAN CORPORATION, ITS AFFILIATED COMPANIES, OR THE
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT OR ANY OF ITS AGENCIES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA,
.\" OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" This license will be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
.\" without reference to its choice of law rules.
.if \n(Pb .ig Iq
.TH qenable 8B "" Local PBS
.so ../ers/ers.macros
.Iq
.SH NAME
qenable \- enable input to a pbs destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
qenable destination ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B qenable
command directs that a destination should accept batch jobs.
.LP
The qenable command sends a
.I "Manage"
request to the batch server specified by
.Ar destination .
.if !\n(Pb .ig Ig
The
.At enabled
queue attribute is set to TRUE.
If the request is accepted, that server will accept
.Ig
.if \n(Pb .ig Ig
If the command is accepted, the destination will accept
.Ig
.I "Queue Job"
requests which specified the queue.
.LP
In order to execute qenable, the user must have PBS Operation or Manager
privilege.
.SH  OPERANDS
The qenable command accepts one or more
.Ar destination
operands.  The operands are one of three forms:
.RS 5
.Ty queue
.br
.Ty @server
.br
.Ty queue@server
.RE
If
.Ty queue
is specified, the request is to enable that queue at the default server.
If the
.Ty @server
form is given, the request is to enable all the queues at that server.
If a full destination identifier,
.Ty queue@server ,
is given, the request is to enable the named queue at the named server.
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The qenable
command will write a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
qenable
command, the exit status will be a value of zero.
.LP
If the qenable command fails to process any operand, the
command exits with a value greater than zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_server(8B), qdisable(8B), and qmgr(1B)
.\" turn off any extra indent left by the Sh macro
.RE
