.\"         OpenPBS (Portable Batch System) v2.3 Software License
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Veridian Information Solutions, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" For a license to use or redistribute the OpenPBS software under conditions
.\" other than those described below, or to purchase support for this software,
.\" please contact Veridian Systems, PBS Products Department ("Licensor") at:
.\" 
.\"    www.OpenPBS.org  +1 650 967-4675                  sales@OpenPBS.org
.\"                        877 902-4PBS (US toll-free)
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" 
.\" This license covers use of the OpenPBS v2.3 software (the "Software") at
.\" your site or location, and, for certain users, redistribution of the
.\" Software to other sites and locations.  Use and redistribution of
.\" OpenPBS v2.3 in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
.\" are permitted provided that all of the following conditions are met.
.\" After December 31, 2001, only conditions 3-6 must be met:
.\" 
.\" 1. Commercial and/or non-commercial use of the Software is permitted
.\"    provided a current software registration is on file at www.OpenPBS.org.
.\"    If use of this software contributes to a publication, product, or service
.\"    proper attribution must be given; see www.OpenPBS.org/credit.html
.\" 
.\" 2. Redistribution in any form is only permitted for non-commercial,
.\"    non-profit purposes.  There can be no charge for the Software or any
.\"    software incorporating the Software.  Further, there can be no
.\"    expectation of revenue generated as a consequence of redistributing
.\"    the Software.
.\" 
.\" 3. Any Redistribution of source code must retain the above copyright notice
.\"    and the acknowledgment contained in paragraph 6, this list of conditions
.\"    and the disclaimer contained in paragraph 7.
.\" 
.\" 4. Any Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice and the acknowledgment contained in paragraph 6, this list of
.\"    conditions and the disclaimer contained in paragraph 7 in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" 5. Redistributions in any form must be accompanied by information on how to
.\"    obtain complete source code for the OpenPBS software and any
.\"    modifications and/or additions to the OpenPBS software.  The source code
.\"    must either be included in the distribution or be available for no more
.\"    than the cost of distribution plus a nominal fee, and all modifications
.\"    and additions to the Software must be freely redistributable by any party
.\"    (including Licensor) without restriction.
.\" 
.\" 6. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of the Software must
.\"    display the following acknowledgment:
.\" 
.\"     "This product includes software developed by NASA Ames Research Center,
.\"     Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and Veridian Information
.\"     Solutions, Inc.
.\"     Visit www.OpenPBS.org for OpenPBS software support,
.\"     products, and information."
.\" 
.\" 7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. ANY EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT
.\" ARE EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL VERIDIAN CORPORATION, ITS AFFILIATED COMPANIES, OR THE
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT OR ANY OF ITS AGENCIES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA,
.\" OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" This license will be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
.\" without reference to its choice of law rules.
.if \n(Pb .ig Iq
.TH qorder 1B "" Local PBS
.so ../ers/ers.macros
.Iq
.SH NAME
qorder \- exchange order of two pbs batch jobs in a queue.
.SH SYNOPSIS
qorder job_identifier job_identifier
.SH DESCRIPTION
To order two jobs is to exchange the jobs positions in the queue or queues in
which the jobs resides.  The two jobs must be located at the same server.
.if !\n(Pb .ig Ig
The
.B qorder
command issues an
.I "Order Jobs"
batch request to the batch server that currently owns the two jobs specified
by the two
.Ar job_identifier 
operands.
.Ig
No attribute of the job, such as priority is changed.
The impact of interchanging the order with the queue(s) is dependent on local
job scheduled policy, contact your systems administrator.
.LP
A job in the
.B running
state cannot be reordered.
.SH OPERANDS
Both operands are
.Ar job_identifiers
which specify the jobs to be exchanged.
The qorder
command accepts two
.Ar job_identifier
operands of the form:
.br
.Ty "\ \ \ \ sequence_number[.server_name][@server]"
.br
The server specification for the two jobs must agree as to the current
location of the two job IDs.
.if !\n(Pb .ig Ig
See the description under "Job Identifier" in section \*(Ji in this ERS.
.Ig
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The qorder command will write diagnostic messages to standard error for each
error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
qorder command, the exit status will be a value of zero.
.LP
If the qorder command fails to process any operand, the
command exits with a value greater than zero.
\" turn off any extra indent left by the Sh macro
.SH SEE ALSO
qsub(1B), qmove(1B), pbs_orderjob(3B), pbs_movejob(3B)
.RE
